all my life had I been under the grip of choice:
that open land before me, those branching paths, 
those simple words *either / or*

but soon that had left me and I felt its opposite tightening:
I saw the fog clearing to reveal the hidden object,
the sea falling to exhume its ancient depths. 

the great movement of the sea is towards revelation; there is nothing that the land or the waves, nor the fish nor the men may ever do to change the course of the movement. the falling of the sea is the passage of time and the formation of the self. 

the ocean's depth cannot help but terrify men, but what is deep will have itself revealed.

---

I had promised that I would 
make something out of this badness

but I haven't yet been able

-

each night I came back to the same thought:
what had I sown that set each door to begin closing?

and if it could be brought back,
	paid off and reined in,
how much and how far would it run before stopping?

-

when had I reached the gates, they set me to dialing the numbers of old friends, but I couldn't get through to a single one. by night I lay by the curb and hear the doormen debate the nature of forgiveness continuously

-

in the amputation of a limb, the saw goes through skin, then muscle, then bone, then muscle, and then skin again. there is immense pain and blood, but if the whole is to be saved, then the limb must be removed. for what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world but lose his own soul? and what is the comparison of a limb to his soul?

-

for years, the sick boy endured at the brink of surrender
when he finally gave in, there was another (far greater) who came forth to pick up his sword
oh! how happy he was that there was another!

---

title: 
date: 22-04-09

who knows which voices will survive the passage of time?

and which whispers faint echoes will fall to men's ears for repeating?

and how many toiled volumes have been cast into the flames unread?

is it the chance of it all, the fortune's wheel, or the clear light of providence guiding?

---

title: 
date: 22-04-08

for to each who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. but from each who has not, even what he has will be taken away.

there I stood by the side of the road, having found myself having, but without anyone to share the burden between.

in some places, the world seemed so bountiful and open
but in others - closed, dreary, and hopeless. 

the world altogether was unrecognizable from itself

---

title: waste
date: 22-03-30

A sudden fear struck me
in the dim of evening
a realization that this
place around me is decrepit
those around me second-rate

and I was filled with a great despair

---

And he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground . . . the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

---

some became great in light of the greatness they saw
and thus they became great but

others became great in light of the ruin and waste they saw
and thus they too became great
