---
title: less than zero
date: 21-06-14
tags: 
---

after a while,  

what happens everytime is that you fall into that place where nothing gets you beyond that point anymore; where everything becomes less than zero.  

and you may stay there for a while - but it will feel like more than a while.   

the point is that you must stay there; there is no seeking forward to the next part where the excitement comes back; no, there is nothing like that anymore, and in time you come to feel there will be nothing like that ever to pass this way again.

all you can do is to keep on  
you nourish yourself on the meager bread of repitition   
and every so often you look at your self again and realize that you are farther from where you had been. but there is never an event (just as the turning of the earth is no event) to demarcate the change that has been gone through, and you yourself are becoming unsure if anything had ever been anything other than what it is. 


and then one day, in one moment, there is something which altogether pulls your entire being into the hurricane and destroys any moderation or pace that you had set for yourself. you cannot do anything but be swept up within it at all; the scaffolding of the mundane, the self through the years that you had gauntly pieced together is suddenly so delicate under your infernal stregth and splinters as if matchsticks around you. 
all of the years clutter is pushed off of the table, not a second glance at the glass pieces of once past which shatter upon the ground. the devil himself cannot catch you. you fall clear into the clouds and deep into the movements of the plates of the earth, in the direction of alife once more. 

_and who knows if he is on his way this lazy sultry noon, the Stranger, carrying his basket of strange wares. he will pass by your door with his clear cry, and you shall fling open your window, cast off your veil, come out of the dusk of your dreams and meet your destiny._


but how long too before this storm dies?