---
title: The Pilgrimage
date: 23-04-28
tags: 
---

A young boy began his pilgrimage up the great mountain unto the Monastary that lie upon its peak. He pushed a cart before him up the road that contained only his meager belongings - the little that he required to get by: a coat for the winter, a trinket from his hometown, and a bowl for water.

-

One day, as he pushed his cart up the mountain, he came upon a small village by the roadside. The villagers came out to greet him. They asked where he was going and he replied, I am traveling to the Monastary upon the peak of the great mountain. The villagers saw that the young boy was strong, possessing a vitality they had rarely seen, and asked him if he could bring something of theirs to the Monastary: a small rememberance of the village. The boy agreed; he was strong and his cart had much room because his things were so few. He enjoyed the villagers' hospitality for the night and left in the early morning, thanking and pledging to them the delivery.

As he continued up the mountain road, he passed many other villages and many other villagers - always curious about his journey. When they heard of his quest and saw of his spirit, many implored him also to deliver something of theirs so that too they may have something in the Monastary. By now, the boy had grown into a young man and his cart was no longer so empty. The years had made him stronger, his burden heavier, and the path before him ever narrower and steeper.

-

One day on his journey he came upon a man driven old with resignation, stooped by the side of the road, carrying a large urn. The old man, seeing his approach, immediately brightened and ran up to him. In his joy, he said: "My lord! O what a great sight it is for thy servant, that he has seen you! Thy servant has waited by this roadside for months to see not a soul pass, not to speak of one with countenance so bright and approach so swift as you! Thy servant begs for only a passing minute to share the story of his troubles." Without a pause, he continued, pleading and excited: "Thy servant my father wished upon his deathbed that his only son would complete his life's journey to arrive at the Monastary upon the peak of the great mountain and place his ashes where they may finally rest. But alas, thy servant has travelled along this road for years, once with spirit and mirth, but now finds himself at the boundary of his ability! Thy servant knows that the journey is still much farther and the road much steeper but already thy servant is weak and faithless and naseous. My lord-" The boy, interrupting him, put his hand on the old man's shoulder and took the urn from him gently. The old man bowed his head to the ground and thanked him unceasingly. So recently without hope, the old man now felt more joyful than he had ever felt, with blissful assurance that the boy would fulfill his promise.

As the boy continued up the mountain road, the villages ceased and the only encounters he continued to have were with fellow pilgrims. Often they would journey together for a while, sometimes even getting into familiar rhythms across months and years, but each time, they eventually parted and he overtook them along the narrow road. In parting, many pilgrims put their dreams of ever arriving at the Monastary with the boy and his cart. Of course, by now the boy had grown into a man and his cart, once meager, had become quite full. He had conquered much and gone farther than so many. His body and mind were disciplined and strong; his heart full of resolve and obligation.

-

One night, he lay by the side of the road and dreamed a dream that he had never dreamt before.

He was familiar with his dreams. On cold nights, in the cold mountain air, they often came to him as rays of warmth from within. The dream with which he was most familiar was one that he had had ever since he was a boy. 

> The dawn breaks, and upon the horizon, he sees the peak of the great mountain. Upon it, he sees the Monastary and the rising sun shining just behind.

When he was a boy, this golden dream was the source of infinite wonder and joy in his waking hours. Over the years, the simple bliss that he felt for it had deepened with each new wish and obligation that he carried within his heart. He has arrived, each promise has been fulfulled, each thing has been delivered and may all now rest. But this night was a new dream that he had never dreamt before - a dream that brought no warmth.

> The boy sees himself as if from above, that mountain road his life's progression. He sees the ruinous road strech out unceasingly - ever narrower, ever steeper, ever colder. He sees himself persevere and continue, but no matter how far he looks, no matter how small he sees himself become, he sees no mountain peak, he sees no Monastary.

After the night of this dream, the sickness set in quickly. He found himself thinking of toil, thinking of respite, thinking of shelter. He chastised himself and pushed on with the discipline that the years had given him. During the day, his muscles continued to climb but where there was once only spirit, one could see weariness. 

-

Another night began a dream that would return continually in the years to come. The beginning was always the same, but the ending was uncertain. It always began like this.  

> The boy felt his strength relent. He felt like stone the boundary of his energy and his spirit. He has become the old man from all those years ago, stooped by the side of the road, his heart weighted with obligation. As if paralyzed upon the steep and narrow road, he only had the remaining strength to keep a hold of the heavy cart before him, to stop it from rolling back down the path.

Sometimes, there is another who comes up the path. 

> A man, niether old nor young, with a countenance infinitely bright, full of all comfort and reassurance, free from all weariness and doubt. He feels himself sink into him in weakness and gratitude, in faith and love. 

Sometimes, it is another who reaches him first.

> A young boy, resembling himself, laughing and running ahead, calling to him, calling back to him: "Come on... come on!" 

Sometimes, no other comes at all, no matter how long he seems to hold on.

> Finally, he gives up the idea that anyone else is coming. He asks forgiveness for all of those to whom he had promised. He surrenders. The cart overruns him and descends down the mountain road.

Sometimes, something strange occurs.

> He reaches that brink where no man comes at all and everything seems to be lost. As he looks upon his cart, suddently, his heart remembers how little it once carried, how little he once needed to get by. Suddenly, his heart remembers the naive joy he once had for the journey, before weight and obligation - and in a shift unthinkable to his conscious mind, he moves himself from the path of the cart and releases it. For the first time since he was a young boy, all things have been lifed from him but vitality and desire. Overcome with joy, he feels his body running along the mountain road towards alife once more.

-

By day he would climb and by night he would lay by the side of the road and the shiver on the cold ground. His dreams would chase each other through the dark passages of his sleeping mind - sometimes one overcoming, sometimes another.
